= ec2-metadata

== Install
 $ [sudo] gem install ec2-metadata

== As ruby library
ec-metadata provides a way to access meta-data and user-data on EC2 instance. 

 Ec2Metadata[:instance_id]
 Ec2Metadata['instance_id']
 Ec2Metadata[:'instance-id']
 Ec2Metadata['instance-id']

If you want to specify API version, you can get data like this:
 Ec2Metadata['1.0'][:instance_id]

If you can also get it like this:
 Ec2Metadata['1.0']['meta-data'][:instance_id]

For more detail, see also:
http://github.com/akm/ec2-metadata/blob/master/spec/introduction_spec.rb


== As a command
ec2-metadata shows various meta-data and user-data
 $ ec2-metadata

For more detail, type 
 $ ec2-metadata -h


== Dummy YAML
If you want to access meta-data or user-data not on EC2 Instance like on it,
make one of these files
 ./config/ec2_metadata.yml
 ./ec2_metadata.yml
 ~/ec2_metadata.yml
 /etc/ec2_metadata.yml

Dummy YAML file must be like output of ec2-metadata on EC2 instance.
You can export it on EC2 instance like this:
 $ ec2-medatata > ec2_metadata.yml
 $ cp ec2_metadata.yml /path/to/dir/for/non/ec2/instance

Or if you don't have EC2 instance, you can get an example by
 $ ec2-metadata -d


== Note on Patches/Pull Requests
 
* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Takeshi AKIMA. See LICENSE for details.
